README.md, before:

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/slowquant/badge/?version=latest)](http://slowquant.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

# SlowQuant

![SlowQuant logo](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/11976167/26658726/5e125b02-466c-11e7-8790-8412789fc9fb.jpg)

SlowQuant is a molecular quantum chemistry program written in Python for classic and quantum computing.
Its specialty is unitary coupled cluster and (time-dependent) linear response in various novel parametrization schemes.
Even the computational demanding parts are written in Python, so it lacks speed, thus the name SlowQuant.

Documentation can be found at:

http://slowquant.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

## Quantum Computing, Variational Quantum Eigensolver

- tUCCSD (trotterized UCCSD through Qiskit)
- fUCCSD (factorized UCCSD)
- tUPS (tiled Unitary Product State)
- Naive Linear Response SD, with singlet spin-adapted operators
- Projected Linear Response SD, with singlet spin-adapted operators

These features are also implemented with the active-space approximation and orbital-optimization.
Suitable for ideal simulator, shot noise simulator, or quantum hardware via IBM Quantum Hub (Interface via Qiskit)

## Conventional Computing, Unitary Coupled Cluster

Current implementation supports:

- UCCSD, spin-adapted operators
- UCCSDTQ56
- Linear Response SD, spin-adapted operators
- Linear Response SDTQ56

These features are also implemented with the active-space approximation and orbital-optimization.

## Usual features

SlowQuant also got some conventional methods, such as Hartree-Fock and molecular integrals.
Just use [PySCF](https://github.com/pyscf/pyscf) instead.

## Cited in

- Kjellgren, Erik Rosendahl, et al. "Divergences in classical and quantum linear response and equation of motion formulations." arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.17141 (2024).
- von Buchwald, Theo Juncker, et al. "Reduced density matrix formulation of quantum linear response." arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16586 (2024).
- Chan, Matthew, et al. "The tale of HORTON: Lessons learned in a decade of scientific software development." The Journal of Chemical Physics 160.16 (2024).
- Ziems, Karl Michael, et al. "Which options exist for NISQ-friendly linear response formulations?." Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation (2024).
- Chaves, B. D. P. G. (2023). Desenvolvimentos em python aplicados ao ensino da química quântica.
- Lehtola, S., & Karttunen, A. J. (2022). Free and open source software for computational chemistry education. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Computational Molecular Science, 12(5), e1610.

## Feature Graveyard

| Feature               | Last living commit                       |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------|
| KS-DFT                | 1b9c5669ab72dfceee0a69c8dca1c67dd4b31bfd |
| MP2                   | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| RPA                   | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| Geometry Optimization | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| CIS                   | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| CCSD                  | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| CCSD(T)               | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| BOMD                  | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |

Commit message:

Ansatz cleanup (#77)
* started some cleanup

* energy elec in ups

* some changes

* More clean up

* More clean up

* More cleanup

* Fix tests

* More clean up

* doc strings

* fix

* Update operators.py

* privated exictation operator functions

* Update slowquant/qiskit_interface/interface.py

Co-authored-by: Karl Michael Ziems <39458020+ziechys@users.noreply.github.com>

* Read and comment (#79)

* Indentation

---------

Co-authored-by: Karl Michael Ziems <39458020+ziechys@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/slowquant/badge/?version=latest)](http://slowquant.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

# SlowQuant

![SlowQuant logo](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/11976167/26658726/5e125b02-466c-11e7-8790-8412789fc9fb.jpg)

SlowQuant is a molecular quantum chemistry program written in Python for classic and quantum computing.
Its specialty is unitary coupled cluster and (time-dependent) linear response in various novel parametrization schemes.
Even the computational demanding parts are written in Python, so it lacks speed, thus the name SlowQuant.

Documentation can be found at:

http://slowquant.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

## Quantum Computing, Variational Quantum Eigensolver

- tUCCSD (trotterized UCCSD through Qiskit)
- fUCCSD (factorized UCCSD)
- tUPS (tiled Unitary Product State)
- Naive Linear Response SD, with singlet spin-adapted operators
- Projected Linear Response SD, with singlet spin-adapted operators

These features are also implemented with the active-space approximation and orbital-optimization.
Suitable for ideal simulator, shot noise simulator, or quantum hardware via IBM Quantum Hub (Interface via Qiskit)

## Conventional Computing, Unitary Coupled Cluster

Current implementation supports:

- UCCSD, spin-adapted operators
- UCCSDTQ56
- Linear Response SD, spin-adapted operators
- Linear Response SDTQ56

These features are also implemented with the active-space approximation and orbital-optimization.

## Usual features

SlowQuant also got some conventional methods, such as Hartree-Fock and molecular integrals.
Just use [PySCF](https://github.com/pyscf/pyscf) instead.

## Cited in

- Ziems, K. M., Kjellgren, E. R., Sauer, S., Kongsted, J., & Coriani, S. (2024). Understanding and mitigating noise in molecular quantum linear response for spectroscopic properties on quantum computers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.09308.
- Kjellgren, E. R., Reinholdt, P., Ziems, K. M., Sauer, S., Coriani, S., & Kongsted, J. (2024). Divergences in classical and quantum linear response and equation of motion formulations. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 161(12).
- von Buchwald, T. J., Ziems, K. M., Kjellgren, E. R., Sauer, S. P., Kongsted, J., & Coriani, S. (2024). Reduced density matrix formulation of quantum linear response. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, 20(16), 7093-7101.
- Chan, M., Verstraelen, T., Tehrani, A., Richer, M., Yang, X. D., Kim, T. D., ... & Ayers, P. W. (2024). The tale of HORTON: Lessons learned in a decade of scientific software development. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 160(16).
- Ziems, K. M., Kjellgren, E. R., Reinholdt, P., Jensen, P. W., Sauer, S. P., Kongsted, J., & Coriani, S. (2024). Which options exist for NISQ-friendly linear response formulations?. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, 20(9), 3551-3565.
- Chaves, B. D. P. G. (2023). Desenvolvimentos em python aplicados ao ensino da química quântica.
- Lehtola, S., & Karttunen, A. J. (2022). Free and open source software for computational chemistry education. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Computational Molecular Science, 12(5), e1610.

## Feature Graveyard

| Feature               | Last living commit                       |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------|
| KS-DFT                | 1b9c5669ab72dfceee0a69c8dca1c67dd4b31bfd |
| MP2                   | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| RPA                   | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| Geometry Optimization | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| CIS                   | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| CCSD                  | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| CCSD(T)               | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
| BOMD                  | 46bf811dfcf217ce0c37ddec77d34ef00da769c3 |
